@node API Coverage
@chapter API Coverage

All available bindings are accessible via the single top-level module:

@example
(use-modules (cairog))
@end example

Full C API reference: @uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/}.

@section Available

@table @asis
@item Core
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Version-Information.html,
Version information}

@item Surface
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Image-Surfaces.html,
Image surfaces},
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-PNG-Support.html,
PNG support},
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-surface-t.html,
surface lifecycle} (create/destroy/status)

@item Context
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html,
Drawing context} (lifecycle, save/restore, source, operator, line
width), paint/fill/stroke verbs,
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html,
path construction} (move-to, line-to, rectangle, arc, close-path)
@end table

@section Not Yet Available

@table @asis
@item Transformations
@code{cairo_matrix_t} — blocked on @code{cairo-matrix-t} struct binding.

@item Patterns
Solid, linear, radial, mesh, surface patterns — blocked on
@code{cairo-pattern-t} opaque wrapper.

@item Extended source
@code{cairo_set_source_surface}, @code{cairo_set_source} — blocked on
@code{cairo-pattern-t}.

@item Clipping
@code{cairo_clip}, @code{cairo_reset_clip} — context module extension.

@item Masking
@code{cairo_mask}, @code{cairo_mask_surface} — blocked on
@code{cairo-pattern-t}.

@item Groups
@code{cairo_push_group}, @code{cairo_pop_group} — blocked on
@code{cairo-pattern-t}.

@item Curve paths
@code{cairo_curve_to}, @code{cairo_rel_curve_to} — context module
extension.

@item Path query
@code{cairo_copy_path}, @code{cairo_get_current_point} — blocked on
@code{cairo-path-t} binding.

@item Style query
@code{cairo_get_line_width}, @code{cairo_get_operator}, etc. — context
module extension.

@item Dash
@code{cairo_set_dash}, @code{cairo_get_dash} — context module
extension.

@item Fill rule / line cap / join
@code{cairo_set_fill_rule}, @code{cairo_set_line_cap},
@code{cairo_set_line_join} — context module extension.

@item Antialiasing
@code{cairo_set_antialias} — context module extension.

@item Text / toy font
@code{cairo_show_text}, @code{cairo_select_font_face},
@code{cairo_set_font_size} — blocked on font-face and text-extents
bindings.

@item Glyph API
@code{cairo_show_glyphs}, @code{cairo_glyph_extents} — blocked on
@code{cairo-glyph-t} struct binding.

@item Scaled font
@code{cairo_scaled_font_t} — blocked on @code{cairo-scaled-font-t}
opaque wrapper.

@item Font options
Hint style, subpixel order, colour mode — blocked on
@code{cairo-font-options-t} opaque wrapper.

@item Device
@code{cairo_device_t} — blocked on @code{cairo-device-t} opaque
wrapper.

@item Region
@code{cairo_region_t} — blocked on @code{cairo-region-t} opaque
wrapper.

@item Additional surface types
PDF, PS, SVG, script, recording surfaces — separate surface modules.

@item Stroke/fill extents
@code{cairo_stroke_extents}, @code{cairo_fill_extents} — context module
extension.

@item Hit testing
@code{cairo_in_stroke}, @code{cairo_in_fill} — context module
extension.

@item User data
@code{cairo_set_user_data} — context module extension.
@end table
