\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*-
@setfilename cairog.info
@settitle Cairog @value{VERSION}
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en

@include version.texi

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2026 the Cairog authors.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is available at
@uref{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Guile modules
@direntry
* Cairog: (cairog).     Cairo 2D graphics binding for GNU Guile.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Cairog
@subtitle Cairo 2D graphics binding for GNU Guile
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED-MONTH}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Cairog

Cairog exposes the @uref{https://www.cairographics.org/, Cairo} 2D
graphics library to GNU Guile through the Foreign Function Interface,
allowing you to draw vector graphics directly from Scheme.

This manual is for Cairog version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Installation::        How to install Cairog.
* Quick Start::         A minimal drawing example.
* Core::                Library loading and version queries.
* Surface::             Surface creation and PNG export.
* Context::             Drawing context and path operations.
* API Coverage::        Which Cairo API groups are available.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@include installation.texi
@include quick-start.texi
@include core.texi
@include surface.texi
@include context.texi
@include api-coverage.texi

@bye
