@node Context
@chapter Context Module

The context module wraps @code{cairo_t}, the central object of Cairo.
Every drawing operation goes through a context bound to a surface.

Full C API reference:
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html}.

@example
(use-modules (cairog))
@end example

@menu
* Context Lifecycle::
* Source::
* State::
* Drawing Verbs::
* Path Construction::
* Operator Constants::
@end menu

@node Context Lifecycle
@section Lifecycle

@deffn Procedure cairo-create surface
Creates a new drawing context targeting @var{surface}.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-create,
cairo_create}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-destroy cr
Decrements the context reference count and frees it when it reaches
zero.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-destroy,
cairo_destroy}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-status cr
Returns the current error state as a @code{CAIRO-STATUS-*} integer.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-status,
cairo_status}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-save cr
@deffnx Procedure cairo-restore cr
Push/pop the full graphics state (source, line width, operator, clip,
etc.) onto a stack.  Use @code{cairo-save} before temporary style
changes and @code{cairo-restore} to undo them.
@end deffn

@node Source
@section Source

@deffn Procedure cairo-set-source-rgb cr r g b
Sets an opaque solid colour.  @var{r}, @var{g}, @var{b} are doubles in
@math{[0.0, 1.0]}.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-set-source-rgb,
cairo_set_source_rgb}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-set-source-rgba cr r g b a
Sets a solid colour with alpha.  @var{a} is a double in
@math{[0.0, 1.0]} where 1.0 is fully opaque.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-set-source-rgba,
cairo_set_source_rgba}.
@end deffn

@node State
@section State

@deffn Procedure cairo-set-line-width cr width
Sets the stroke line width in user-space units.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-set-line-width,
cairo_set_line_width}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-set-operator cr op
Sets the compositing operator.  @var{op} is one of the
@code{CAIRO-OPERATOR-*} constants (@pxref{Operator Constants}).

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-set-operator,
cairo_set_operator}.
@end deffn

@node Drawing Verbs
@section Drawing Verbs

@deffn Procedure cairo-paint cr
Fills the entire clip region with the current source.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-paint,
cairo_paint}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-paint-with-alpha cr alpha
Like @code{cairo-paint} but modulates the source with @var{alpha}
(double in @math{[0.0, 1.0]}).

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-paint-with-alpha,
cairo_paint_with_alpha}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-fill cr
@deffnx Procedure cairo-fill-preserve cr
Fill the current path with the source.  @code{cairo-fill} clears the
path afterwards; @code{cairo-fill-preserve} keeps it for further
operations (e.g.@: a subsequent stroke).
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-stroke cr
@deffnx Procedure cairo-stroke-preserve cr
Stroke the current path outline using the current line width and source.
@code{cairo-stroke-preserve} keeps the path.
@end deffn

@node Path Construction
@section Path Construction

@deffn Procedure cairo-move-to cr x y
@deffnx Procedure cairo-rel-move-to cr dx dy
Move the current point to @math{(x, y)} (absolute) or offset by
@math{(dx, dy)} (relative), starting a new sub-path.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-line-to cr x y
@deffnx Procedure cairo-rel-line-to cr dx dy
Add a straight-line segment to @math{(x, y)} (absolute) or offset by
@math{(dx, dy)} (relative).
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-rectangle cr x y width height
Add a closed rectangular sub-path at @math{(x, y)} with the given
@var{width} and @var{height}.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html#cairo-rectangle,
cairo_rectangle}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-arc cr xc yc radius angle1 angle2
Add a circular arc centred at @math{(xc, yc)} with @var{radius}, from
@var{angle1} to @var{angle2} in radians, going clockwise.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html#cairo-arc,
cairo_arc}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-arc-negative cr xc yc radius angle1 angle2
Like @code{cairo-arc} but goes counter-clockwise.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html#cairo-arc-negative,
cairo_arc_negative}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-close-path cr
Close the current sub-path by drawing a straight line back to its
starting point.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html#cairo-close-path,
cairo_close_path}.
@end deffn

@node Operator Constants
@section Operator Constants

Used with @code{cairo-set-operator}.  From
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html#cairo-operator-t,
cairo_operator_t}:

@table @code
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-CLEAR
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-SOURCE
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-OVER
Default operator.
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-IN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-OUT
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-ATOP
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DEST
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DEST-OVER
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DEST-IN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DEST-OUT
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DEST-ATOP
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-XOR
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-ADD
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-SATURATE
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-MULTIPLY
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-SCREEN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-OVERLAY
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DARKEN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-LIGHTEN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-COLOR-DODGE
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-COLOR-BURN
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-HARD-LIGHT
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-SOFT-LIGHT
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-DIFFERENCE
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-EXCLUSION
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-HSL-HUE
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-HSL-SATURATION
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-HSL-COLOR
@item CAIRO-OPERATOR-HSL-LUMINOSITY
@end table
