@node Surface
@chapter Surface Module

A surface is the destination for drawing operations — in this binding,
in-memory bitmap images that can be exported to PNG.

Full C API reference:
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-surface-t.html}.

@example
(use-modules (cairog))
@end example

@menu
* Surface Procedures::
* Surface Format Constants::
@end menu

@node Surface Procedures
@section Procedures

@deffn Procedure cairo-image-surface-create format width height
Creates an in-memory image surface of the given pixel format and
dimensions.  @var{format} is one of the @code{CAIRO-FORMAT-*} constants
(@pxref{Surface Format Constants}).

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Image-Surfaces.html#cairo-image-surface-create,
cairo_image_surface_create}.

@example
(cairo-image-surface-create CAIRO-FORMAT-ARGB32 800 600)
@end example
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-surface-destroy surface
Decrements the reference count on @var{surface}.  The surface is freed
when the count reaches zero.  Call this once you are done drawing.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-surface-t.html#cairo-surface-destroy,
cairo_surface_destroy}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-surface-status surface
Returns the current error status of @var{surface} as one of the
@code{CAIRO-STATUS-*} integers.  A healthy surface returns
@code{CAIRO-STATUS-SUCCESS} (0).

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-surface-t.html#cairo-surface-status,
cairo_surface_status}.
@end deffn

@deffn Procedure cairo-surface-write-to-png surface filename
Writes the surface contents to a PNG file at @var{filename}.  Returns a
@code{CAIRO-STATUS-*} integer; @code{CAIRO-STATUS-SUCCESS} on success.

Corresponds to
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-PNG-Support.html#cairo-surface-write-to-png,
cairo_surface_write_to_png}.

@example
(cairo-surface-write-to-png surface "/tmp/output.png")
@end example
@end deffn

@node Surface Format Constants
@section Format Constants

Pixel formats for @code{cairo-image-surface-create}, from
@uref{https://www.cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Image-Surfaces.html#cairo-format-t,
cairo_format_t}:

@table @code
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-ARGB32
32-bit ARGB with pre-multiplied alpha.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-RGB24
32-bit RGB, no alpha.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-A8
8-bit alpha channel only.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-A1
1-bit alpha channel only.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-RGB16-565
16-bit RGB.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-RGB30
30-bit RGB.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-RGB96F
96-bit RGB, floating-point.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-RGBA128F
128-bit RGBA, floating-point.
@item CAIRO-FORMAT-INVALID
Invalid format (error sentinel).
@end table
